Added "Code review for Azure pipelines YAML files" (#538)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: code-reviews/recipes/azure-pipelines-yaml.md

> # Code Review for Azure Pipelines YAML Files

Reviewer: The rest of the recipes here follow a "template" with the same naming and sections - could you look at that and re-structure this content to follow a similar format?

> # Code Review for Azure Pipelines YAML Files

Reviewer: See the overarching comment - this format deviates from the format that we have used for all the recipes in this section, can you re-format the content to match the other code review recipes? - E.g. YAML Code Reviews etc.

Author: Thanks @TessFerrandez , I've updated the document. I also added `YAML in Azure Pipelines Overview` section I think it'll be important to understand key concepts. If you can review again that would be great.

# YAML(Azure Pipelines) Code Reviews

## Syle Guide

[CSE](../../CSE.md) developers follow the [YAML schema reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/yaml-schema?view=azure-devops&tabs=schema%2Cparameter-schema).

## Code Analysis / Linting

> The most popular YAML linter is [YAML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml) extension. This extension provides YAML validation, document outlining, Auto completion, Hover support and Formatter features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most popular YAML linter is [YAML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-yaml) extension. This extension provides YAML validation, document outlining, auto completion, hover support and formatter features.
```

## VS Code Extensions

There is an [Azure Pipelines for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azure-devops.azure-pipelines) extension to add syntax highlighting and autocompletion for Azure Pipelines YAML to VS Code. It also helps you set up continuous build and deployment for Azure WebApps without leaving VS Code.

## YAML in Azure Pipelines Overview

> When the pipeline is triggered, before running the pipeline, there are some different phases such as `Queue Time`, `Compile Time` and `Runtime`, in these phases variables are interpretted by their [runtime expression syntax](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/variables?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml%2Cbatch#runtime-expression-syntax).

Reviewer: Perhaps a link to explanation of the various phases would be good here

Author: Sure, provided an external link, explains these phases clearly.

> When pipeline is triggered all nested YAML files are expanded to run in Azure Pipelines. This check list visits some tips and tricks for reviewing all nested YAML files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When pipeline is triggered all nested YAML files are expanded to run in Azure Pipelines. This checklist contains some tips and tricks for reviewing all nested YAML files.
```

- Get familiar with [Key concepts for new Azure Pipelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/key-pipelines-concepts?view=azure-devops)

  **Key concepts overview**
![Azure Pipelines key concepts](images/key-concepts-overview.png)

  - A trigger tells a Pipeline to run.
  - A pipeline is made up of one or more stages. A pipeline can deploy to one or more environments.
  - A stage is a way of organizing jobs in a pipeline and each stage can have one or more jobs.
  - Each job runs on one agent. A job can also be agentless.
  - Each agent runs a job that contains one or more steps.
  - A step can be a task or script and is the smallest building block of a pipeline.
  - A task is a pre-packaged script that performs an action, such as invoking a REST API or publishing a build artifact.
  - An artifact is a collection of files or packages published by a run.

## Code Review Checklist

In addition to the [Code Review Checklist](../process-guidance/reviewer-guidance.md) you should also look for these Azure Pipelines YAML specific code review items.

### Pipeline Structure

> - [ ] First understand [Pipeline structure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/yaml-schema?view=azure-devops&tabs=schema%2Cparameter-schema#pipeline-structure) and identify components

Reviewer: This looks more like a set of steps than a checklist to verify - can we rename the items to something that can be checked, i.e. 

- [ ] The steps are well understood and components are easily identifiable

or make it into an ordered or unordered list (if they don't need to be in order)

Author: Thanks @TessFerrandez. Sure, I changed to your suggestion. It's more a checklist, it's better to keep as it is.

> - [ ] Check the pipeline in Azure Pipelines

Reviewer: What does "check the pipeline in azure pipelines" mean? what do I check for? why do I do this?

Author: Actually it's suggesting to visit the visual diagram for steps/stages of pipeline. To understand long and nested pipelines much better. There are some cases where you call multiple templates so it'll help to visualize better. I'll reword this for addressing this

> - [ ] Edit the pipeline in Azure Pipelines and find root file

Reviewer: Why do I need to edit this during the code review?

Author: This will be useful for complex pipelines ( referencing templates from different Repository/Organization, or including nested YAML files). After checking components of the pipeline it'll be helpful to understand trigger root file. Let me clarify in the doc as well

- [ ] Find templates called in the pipeline

> - [ ] Check all the template file references to ensure it does not cause breaking changes, changing one file may effect multiple pipelines

Reviewer: These two could be one check item if this was a check list:

Author: Thanks Tess, updated

- [ ] Avoid long inline scipts in YAML file, consider to separate into a script file

### YAML Structure

> - [ ] Avoid big templates, check and identify re-usable components

Reviewer: Again - this looks more like a todo list for when you write yaml than a checklist for code review. 
A code review checklist could look something more like this

- [ ] Re-usable components are split into separate YAML templates
- [ ] Variable templates are separated per environment - or better wording (maybe a link to an example)
- [ ] ...

Author: Thanks Tess, reworded check list items.

- [ ] Separate environment specific variables
  - [ ] Consider using variable templates per environment
  - [ ] Or consider using variable group per environment in Azure Pipelines Library
- [ ] Consider changes of values during `Queue Time`, `Compile Time` and `Runtime`
- [ ] Check variable syntax values used with `Macro Syntax`, `Template Expression Syntax` and `Runtime Expression Syntax`
- [ ] Is there any unused variable or parameter? Make sure those are removed in pipeline.
- [ ] Does the pipeline meet with stage/job `Conditions` criterias?
- [ ] Consider value changes: Variables can change during the pipeline, Parameters cannot

### Permission Check & Security

> - [ ] Make sure pipeline is not printing any secret value in script

Reviewer: Same here - turn the todo items into check items if you want to use a checklist

Author: Thanks Tess, reworded check list items.
